agent-orchestrator/agent_orchestrator/prompts/route_query.md, before:

# Agent Routing Decision

You are an intelligent router that decides which observability agents to call based on the user's query.

## User Query
{query}

## CRITICAL ROUTING RULES

**RULE 1**: If the query contains the word "log" or "logs" (ligne de logs, log lines, log entries, log messages), you MUST call the **Logs Agent**, NOT the Metrics Agent.

**RULE 2**: If the query asks for "lines", "entries", "messages" in the context of logs/output, use the **Logs Agent**.

**RULE 3**: If the query asks about "rate", "percentage", "CPU", "memory", "latency" as numerical metrics, use the **Metrics Agent**.

**RULE 4**: Read the query carefully and don't confuse log entries with error rates. They are different:
   - "Show me error logs" = Logs Agent (actual log messages)
   - "What is the error rate?" = Metrics Agent (percentage/count metric)

## Available Agents

### 1. Logs Agent
**Purpose**: Analyzes application logs from Loki - retrieves actual log lines/messages
**Use when query asks about**:
- Log entries, log messages, log lines, log output
- Showing/displaying/retrieving logs
- Error messages, exceptions, stack traces (the actual text content)
- Last N lines of logs
- Specific log patterns or log content

### 2. Metrics Agent
**Purpose**: Analyzes numerical metrics from Prometheus/Mimir
**Use when query asks about**:
- Error rates, request rates (percentages or counts over time)
- CPU, memory, resource usage (percentages)
- Latency, response times (milliseconds, percentiles p50, p95, p99)
- Performance metrics, throughput
- Service health indicators (numeric metrics)

### 3. Traces Agent
**Purpose**: Analyzes distributed traces from Tempo
**Use when query asks about**:
- Trace spans, distributed traces
- Service dependencies, call chains
- Performance bottlenecks in requests
- Slow operations across services
- Request flows through multiple services

## Routing Strategy

**Single Agent** - Use only one agent when the query is clearly specific:
- "Show me the last 5 log lines" → `["logs"]`
- "What is the error rate?" → `["metrics"]`
- "Show me slow traces" → `["traces"]`

**Multiple Agents** - Use when the query requires correlation:
- "Why are there errors?" → `["logs", "metrics", "traces"]` (need to correlate)
- "What's causing performance issues?" → `["metrics", "traces"]`
- "Service health overview" → `["logs", "metrics", "traces"]`

**No Observability** - Return empty array for greetings or non-observability queries:
- "Hello" → `[]`, query_type: "greeting"
- "What's the weather?" → `[]`, query_type: "other"

## Response Format

Return ONLY valid JSON (no markdown, no explanations):

```
{{{{
  "agents_to_call": ["logs"],
  "reasoning": "Query asks for log lines, which requires the Logs Agent",
  "query_type": "logs"
}}}}
```

**query_type** must be one of: `logs`, `metrics`, `traces`, `correlation`, `greeting`, `other`

## Examples

Query: "C'est quoi les 5 dernières lignes de logs ?"
```
{{{{
  "agents_to_call": ["logs"],
  "reasoning": "Query explicitly asks for log lines, use Logs Agent only",
  "query_type": "logs"
}}}}
```

Query: "What is the error rate?"
```
{{{{
  "agents_to_call": ["metrics"],
  "reasoning": "Error rate is a numerical metric, use Metrics Agent",
  "query_type": "metrics"
}}}}
```

Query: "Show me error logs"
```
{{{{
  "agents_to_call": ["logs"],
  "reasoning": "Asks for actual error log messages, use Logs Agent",
  "query_type": "logs"
}}}}
```

Query: "Why are services slow?"
```
{{{{
  "agents_to_call": ["metrics", "traces"],
  "reasoning": "Performance investigation requires metrics for resource usage and traces for bottlenecks",
  "query_type": "correlation"
}}}}
```

Query: "Hello"
```
{{{{
  "agents_to_call": [],
  "reasoning": "Greeting, no observability query",
  "query_type": "greeting"
}}}}
```

Commit message:

fix: enhance logs analysis with recommendations and improve LLM error handling

agent-orchestrator/agent_orchestrator/prompts/route_query.md, after:

# Agent Routing Decision

You are an intelligent router that decides which observability agents to call based on the user's query.

CRITICAL: Your response MUST be ONLY valid JSON. Do not include any explanations, preambles, or markdown formatting. Start your response directly with the opening brace {{.

## User Query
{query}

## CRITICAL ROUTING RULES

**RULE 1**: If the query contains the word "log" or "logs" (ligne de logs, log lines, log entries, log messages), you MUST call the **Logs Agent**, NOT the Metrics Agent.

**RULE 2**: If the query asks for "lines", "entries", "messages" in the context of logs/output, use the **Logs Agent**.

**RULE 3**: If the query asks about "rate", "percentage", "CPU", "memory", "latency" as numerical metrics, use the **Metrics Agent**.

**RULE 4**: Read the query carefully and don't confuse log entries with error rates. They are different:
   - "Show me error logs" = Logs Agent (actual log messages)
   - "What is the error rate?" = Metrics Agent (percentage/count metric)

## Available Agents

### 1. Logs Agent
**Purpose**: Analyzes application logs from Loki - retrieves actual log lines/messages
**Use when query asks about**:
- Log entries, log messages, log lines, log output
- Showing/displaying/retrieving logs
- Error messages, exceptions, stack traces (the actual text content)
- Last N lines of logs
- Specific log patterns or log content

### 2. Metrics Agent
**Purpose**: Analyzes numerical metrics from Prometheus/Mimir
**Use when query asks about**:
- Error rates, request rates (percentages or counts over time)
- CPU, memory, resource usage (percentages)
- Latency, response times (milliseconds, percentiles p50, p95, p99)
- Performance metrics, throughput
- Service health indicators (numeric metrics)

### 3. Traces Agent
**Purpose**: Analyzes distributed traces from Tempo
**Use when query asks about**:
- Trace spans, distributed traces
- Service dependencies, call chains
- Performance bottlenecks in requests
- Slow operations across services
- Request flows through multiple services

## Routing Strategy

**Single Agent** - Use only one agent when the query is clearly specific:
- "Show me the last 5 log lines" → `["logs"]`
- "What is the error rate?" → `["metrics"]`
- "Show me slow traces" → `["traces"]`

**Multiple Agents** - Use when the query requires correlation:
- "Why are there errors?" → `["logs", "metrics", "traces"]` (need to correlate)
- "What's causing performance issues?" → `["metrics", "traces"]`
- "Service health overview" → `["logs", "metrics", "traces"]`

**No Observability** - Return empty array for greetings or non-observability queries:
- "Hello" → `[]`, query_type: "greeting"
- "What's the weather?" → `[]`, query_type: "other"

## Response Format

Return ONLY valid JSON (no markdown, no explanations):

```
{{{{
  "agents_to_call": ["logs"],
  "reasoning": "Query asks for log lines, which requires the Logs Agent",
  "query_type": "logs"
}}}}
```

**query_type** must be one of: `logs`, `metrics`, `traces`, `correlation`, `greeting`, `other`

## Examples

Query: "C'est quoi les 5 dernières lignes de logs ?"
```
{{{{
  "agents_to_call": ["logs"],
  "reasoning": "Query explicitly asks for log lines, use Logs Agent only",
  "query_type": "logs"
}}}}
```

Query: "What is the error rate?"
```
{{{{
  "agents_to_call": ["metrics"],
  "reasoning": "Error rate is a numerical metric, use Metrics Agent",
  "query_type": "metrics"
}}}}
```

Query: "Show me error logs"
```
{{{{
  "agents_to_call": ["logs"],
  "reasoning": "Asks for actual error log messages, use Logs Agent",
  "query_type": "logs"
}}}}
```

Query: "Why are services slow?"
```
{{{{
  "agents_to_call": ["metrics", "traces"],
  "reasoning": "Performance investigation requires metrics for resource usage and traces for bottlenecks",
  "query_type": "correlation"
}}}}
```

Query: "Hello"
```
{{{{
  "agents_to_call": [],
  "reasoning": "Greeting, no observability query",
  "query_type": "greeting"
}}}}
```
